Resurrect EIP-831 and add "eth" shorhand (#5335)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-831.md

---
eip: 831
title: URI Format for Ethereum
description: A way of creating Ethereum URIs for various use-cases.
author: ligi (@ligi)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-831-uri-format-for-ethereum/10105
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC

> created: 2018-01-15

Reviewer: ```suggestion
created: 2018-01-15
requires: 67, 681
```
Note: At the moment `requires` means "required reading to fully understand this EIP" and it doesn't necessarily mean that someone implementing this EIP needs to also implement either of these EIPs

author: ligi <ligi@ligi.de>
type: Standards Track
category: ERC

> status: Draft

Reviewer 2: Please fix the EIPw errors

Author: done

### Syntax

Ethereum URIs contain "ethereum" or "eth" in their schema (protocol) part and are constructed as follows:

    request                 = "eth" [ "ereum" ] ":" [ prefix "-" ] payload
    prefix                  = STRING
    payload                 = STRING

### Semantics

> `prefix` is optional and defines the use-case for this URI. If no prefix is given: "pay-" is assumed to be concise and ensure backward compatibility to [EIP-67](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/67). When the prefix is omitted, the payload must start with `0x`. Also prefixes must not start with `0x`. So starting with `0x` can be used as a clear signal that there is no prefix.

Reviewer: There is no EIP-67, so you cannot link to EIP-67.  Recommend just removing this comment about compatibility.  You can't be backward incompatible with a thing that doesn't exist.  😄

Author: I really want to leave this in as it gives important context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`prefix` is optional and defines the use-case for this URI. If no prefix is given: "pay-" is assumed to be concise and ensure backward compatibility with other standards. When the prefix is omitted, the payload must start with `0x`. Also prefixes must not start with `0x`. So starting with `0x` can be used as a clear signal that there is no prefix.
```
Fixed.

Reviewer: What other standards are being referred to by "with other standards"?  If there are no standards then this feels like a vacuous statement.

Perhaps instead, "backward compatibility with existing contracts in the ecosystem" to make it clear that there are no existing standards but there does exist contracts in the wild that there is a desire to be compatible with?

Reviewer 2: > What other standards are being referred to by "with other standards"? If there are no standards then this feels like a vacuous statement.

There are other standards out there that aren't EIPs, or even official standards. "EIP-223" (not an EIP) is a good example of this.

Reviewer: At best, that is a defacto standard which I personally wouldn't call a standard.

> `prefix` is optional and defines the use-case for this URI. If no prefix is given: "pay-" is assumed to be concise and ensure backward compatibility to a former URL format by @alexvandesande that was commonly used but never formalized and so cannot be mentioned by it's name without making the EIPW bot angry. When the prefix is omitted, the payload must start with `0x`. Also prefixes must not start with `0x`. So starting with `0x` can be used as a clear signal that there is no prefix.

Reviewer 3: Come on, the rules aren't _that_ bad :rofl:

You could try:

```suggestion
`prefix` is optional and defines the use-case for this URI. If no prefix is given: "pay-" is assumed to be concise and ensure backward compatibility with preexisting implementations (including a draft EIP by @alexvandesande). When the prefix is omitted, the payload must start with `0x`. Also prefixes must not start with `0x`. So starting with `0x` can be used as a clear signal that there is no prefix.
```

If you want to keep this text literally, I suggest a small grammar edit:

```suggestion
`prefix` is optional and defines the use-case for this URI. If no prefix is given: "pay-" is assumed to be concise and ensure backward compatibility to a former URL format by @alexvandesande that was commonly used but never formalized and so cannot be mentioned by its name without making the EIPW bot angry. When the prefix is omitted, the payload must start with `0x`. Also prefixes must not start with `0x`. So starting with `0x` can be used as a clear signal that there is no prefix.
```

Reviewer: I'm not personally a fan of name dropping like that.  It doesn't add value to some future implementer who wants to implement this specification.

> `prefix` is optional and defines the use-case for this URI. If no prefix is given: "pay-" is assumed to be concise and ensure backward compatibility to a former URL format by @alexvandesande (#67) that was commonly used but never formalized and so cannot be mentioned by it's name without making the EIPW bot angry. When the prefix is omitted, the payload must start with `0x`. Also prefixes must not start with `0x`. So starting with `0x` can be used as a clear signal that there is no prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`prefix` is optional and defines the use-case for this URI. If no prefix is given: "pay-" is assumed to be concise and ensure backward compatibility with a common pattern used prior to the introduction of this standard. When the prefix is omitted, the payload must start with `0x`. Also prefixes must not start with `0x`. So starting with `0x` can be used as a clear signal that there is no prefix.
```

Author: Thanks - but it was never used on "Ethereum mainnet" as this is used on another layer and not really on a network - and seems I can reference EIP-67 again soon as for: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/5338
This kinda solves it.

Reviewer: *IF* that gets approved by the author you can reference EIP-67.  Note that this PR will be blocked from merging until then though, and be prepared for that to never happen as many EIP authors never respond.  😢
